[MUSIC]
As we discussed earlier,
the real world applications for
index or match, by themselves,
are not extremely powerful.
However, as discussed previously,
when they are used in conjunction
we can do many different things.
Let's build to this slowly,
first with Index, and then Match,
and then bring them together.
First, we use the Match formula to
look up which row Tuvalu is on.
We type =match
to look up the value Tuvalu,
located in cell B100.
The lookup array is country,
and our match type is exact.
This function returns the answer 14.
Now that we know which
row Tuvalu is located,
we can use the Index formula to
look up the associated revenue.
Let's type, =index,
followed by the revenue array.
Since we just looked up that Tuvalu, is
in row 14, we can use 14 from the match.
And now we can hit Enter.
Now we've got the Revenue for Tuvalu.
Let's check that out real quick.
First, we located what row Tuvalu was on,
and
then found the relative match in
the revenue column was equal to 1269.
Also, did you notice we
just did a vertical lookup
with a matching value on
the right instead of the left?
That is something we could have
not done using a view lookup.
However, we don't always need
to do this in two steps.
We can also use the INDEX and
MATCH function together.
If we look at the MATCH formula again,
we see we reference C100,
which contained the row reference.
If we replace the C100 in
the index formula with the MATCH
formula contained in cell C100,
we can do it 1 step.
Let's give it a shot, =index.
What do we want in the index?
It's the same as before.
We're trying to look up the revenue.
The row number we don't actually know.
We're going to look that up using
the MATCH formula we learned before.
So for the MATCH formula,
the lookup value is Tuvalu.
We are trying to find Tuvalu
within the Country array.
We want an exact MATCH.
Now we use both these formulas together,
so we need to close both the MATCH and
the INDEX formula,
two parentheses at the end,
and now we can click enter.
We just built a nested
formula using both INDEX and
MATCH to look up the revenue
associated with Tuvalu.
Now why don't you practice
on your own using first,
the MATCH formula, then the INDEX formula,
and then using them together.
In our practice set we used
the Revenue as the lookup field.
This time you're going to try
to look up the EBITA, good luck.